# Real Time Operating Systems (RTOS)

This material seeks to integrate theoretical and technical knowledge regarding real-time and general-purpose operating systems for reduced capacity architectures, specifically ARM based. The examples that are presented serve as foundations for edge-computing applications. Before we take a dive at fine grain problems, it is often helpfull to understand what kind of problems can be addressed with RTOS. 

History has shown us that an idea, a paradigm progressively matures as needs arise, lines of thought converge, and when the vision transcends personal interests. The edge-computing paradigm has gone through multiple transitions. Probably one of its early promoters was the need to decentralize processing and storage. It was not until communication networks reached high transmission rates and an acceptable level of reliability that such a transition was possible. Years later, the paradigm found new areas of application. For example, in content dissemination. In this case, the objective was to decentralize network on high demand for content on the internet. One system that achieved scalable content dissemination was Akamai (Sherman et. al., 2005). The computing ecosystem has changed. Small RICS architectures, large data sets, and a barrage of A.I. tools are more pervasive. What will promote a new paradigm shift? Past events have had one common denominator avoid centralizing work, content, or communication. The concept of work and communication is changing. Numerical computation is not enough, machines will become aware, collaborate between them, and find new forms of interaction with the world. To achieve such level of abstraction many technological hurdles in systems, AI and HCI need must be passed.

The aim of this repository, is to bridge system competencies and A.I. This site will host simple multitasking applications, real-time, embedded AI applications. These will be based on the FreeRTOS operating system running on ST platforms.

